# Matlab
Matlab projects
This code models just a small slice of a much more complex model published by Daniel Falster in his 2017 paper, "Multitrait successional forest dynamics enable competitive coexistence." Falster modeled how vegetation tratis and successional dynamics could affect niche evolution of tropical forests, yielding high species coexistence. I began trying to recreate the model in Matlab for my class in modeling biological systems, but ended up modeling a much more limited set of traits and inputs, setting up the data structure to enable me to add more and more complex elements if ever I wanted to return to this project.

As it stands, this code models the influence of two traits: leaf mass per area (LMA) which affects net annual biomass production and the height at maturation (HMAT) which mediates when and how much energy is allocated to vertical growth versus reproduction. Three combinations of these traits are known to be common in fully developed tropical forests. This model represents those three trait combinations and allows comparison of their reproductive fitness and heights through 100 time steps. Each new bar represents a new offspring, but I only allow this model to create up to 19 new individuals for computational reasons. It is easy to change the time steps, trait combinations, and maximum number of offspring in the initial lines of code. 

The next step in this model would be to factor in the effect of canopy cover from surrounding trees on individuals. However, I am not sure this can be done in Matlab as it requires modeling an integral of an integral. 
